Add Tailscale Integration Docs (#91)
codesandbox/docs: packages/projects-docs/pages/learn/integrations/tailscale.mdx

---
title: Tailscale
description: Tailscale VPN integration that allows access to private resources from your Repositories.
---

import Callout from 'nextra-theme-docs/callout'

# Tailscale

At CodeSandbox, we use [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com/) to manage network access for private resources, including some of the services that make up CodeSandbox.
As you work on an application in CodeSandbox Repositories, you might want to grant it access to private resources on your network.
Tailscale can help.

<Callout emoji="⭑">

> You can try Tailscale for free by following their [Quickstart guide](https://tailscale.com/kb/1017/install/#step-2-add-a-machine-to-your-network).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try Tailscale for free by following their [Quickstart guide](https://tailscale.com/kb/1017/install/).
```

Throughout this documentation, we'll assume you have a tailnet called `example-tailnet.ts.net` (which you should replace with your [name](https://tailscale.com/kb/1217/tailnet-name/)).
</Callout>

## Motivation

Many applications exist as part of a collection of services.

> While things like mocks can help isolate a single application during development, this isn't always possible.

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence.

Just because you develop in CodeSandbox, however, doesn't mean you can't connect your application to private services running in your organization's network.

Integrating with Tailscale provides containers running in a CodeSandbox Repository environment with access to your private resources.

> Combined with Tailscale's Magic DNS and ACLs, you can develop your application as if it were hosted in the same network as your other services — without compromising security.

Reviewer: Also consider linking to https://tailscale.com/kb/1081/magicdns/ and https://tailscale.com/kb/1018/acls/
```suggestion
Combined with Tailscale's MagicDNS and ACLs, you can develop your application as if it were hosted in the same network as your other services — without compromising security.
```

## Creating an Auth Key

Integrating a CodeSandbox Repository with Tailscale requires an [auth key](https://tailscale.com/kb/1085/auth-keys/), a secret you embed in the CodeSandbox environment to allow registration on your network.

> Network admins can create them on the [auth key page](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/settings/keys).

Reviewer: "Network Admin" is a specific role in Tailscale. "Admin" is more general.
```suggestion
Admins can create them on the [auth key page](https://login.tailscale.com/admin/settings/keys) of the Tailscale admin console.
```

* **Reusable**, so you don't encounter issues when forking a new branch,
* **Ephemeral**, so you don't have to clean up old branches from your tailnet, and
* **Pre-authorized**, so you don't have to wait for someone to approve a new branch before you start developing.

Depending on your tailnet setup, you may also want it to be:

* **Tagged**, so CodeSandbox environments are automatically labeled and access-controlled via Tailscale's ACLs.

## Setting up your Repository

Tailscale currently works in CodeSandbox Repository environments by adding a container to a Dockerized application setup (for example, using `docker-compose`).
The additional container runs the Tailscale client and provides networking for the other containers.

### Environment Variables

Before launching the new container, it is necessary to add the Tailscale auth key as an environment variable.
With a branch open in the Repository editor, go to the CodeSandbox menu, and choose **Env variables**.
Throughout the rest of this documentation, we will assume you named the variable `TS_AUTH_KEY`.
Restart any existing branches to update the running environment.

### Docker Container

> In a setup using Docker Compose, we can add the `tailscale` image as an additional service beside our application.

Reviewer: Link to https://hub.docker.com/r/tailscale/tailscale

Here's an example `docker-compose.yml` file with the Tailscale service:

```yaml
services:
  tailscale:
    image: tailscale/tailscale
    cap_add:
      - net_admin
      - net_raw
      - sys_module
    command: "tailscaled --state=mem:"
    volumes:
      - "/dev/net/tun:/dev/net/tun"

  myapp:
    # ...
    network_mode: service:tailscale
```

> This runs the latest `tailscale/tailscale` image with a few customizations.

Reviewer: Here you call it `tailscale/tailscale` but earlier you just call it `tailscale`. Pick one.
